STAR principles

	• Tell me a challenge you had where the best way forward was not clear-cut.
	• Tell me about a time you had to work hard to please a client.
	• Give me an example of something you tried to accomplish but failed.
	• Give me an example of a time when you showed initiative.
	• Give me an example of a time when you motivated others.
	• Tell me about a time when you delegated a project effectively.
	• A time when you failed to work as part of the team, and what you learned from it?
	• Tell me about a time when you coached someone.
	• When have you used your fact-finding skills to solve a problem?
	• Walk us through a time when you helped a customer through a difficult process and what that looked like?
	• Give me an example of when you took a risk and it failed.
	• Describe a time when your  security solution caused a problem?
	• Invent and simplify?
	• Disagreement with boss?Bias for action? Don’t overthink
	• Do more with less?
Made a serious mistake?


STAR
Situation: Describe the context within which you performed a job or faced a challenge at work.
Task: Next, describe your responsibility in that situation. 
Action: You then describe how you completed the task or endeavored to meet the challenge.
Result: Finally, explain the outcomes or results generated by the action taken.

Customer Obsession:
Leaders start with the customer and work backwards. They work vigorously to earn and keep customer trust. Although leaders pay attention to competitors, they obsess over customers.

How to benefit our customer from certain security decision? (Customer is the end customer not internal customer)
When I was at AIA, we had this customer facing insurance application. The customer experience team reported the application had a very negative score on Google App store since the application didn’t support biometric authentication. Moreover had to use a complex password everytime they need to login to the application. But the company didn’t support biometric authentication and policy around password complexity was rigid. So I drove the change of rewriting the policy and helped them identify a secure biometric solution.  We evaluated DAON platform which solved the challenge.  It works all channels web, mobile (android/ios) and different security mechanism such as geolocation) Customers were happy and business was more happy.  

Ownership
Leaders are owners. They think long term and don’t sacrifice long-term value for short-term results. They act on behalf of the entire company, beyond just their own team. They never say “that’s not my job”.

Take ownership of fixing issues in applications..
Describe a time when you took ownership of a problem ? 
Same as DAON 


Invent and Simplify
Leaders expect and require innovation and invention from their teams and always find ways to simplify. They are externally aware, look for new ideas from everywhere, and are not limited by “not invented here”. As we do new things, we accept that we may be misunderstood for long periods of time.

KISS principle
Describe a situation when you simplified a process? 
At my current job, we work as a devsecops consultant. So we deal with a lot of automation and not shy of writing scripts when necessary. Previously we had a process to do code review manually. Developers will submit the code from their machine using a script, then one of our server will process the request then perform the scan and upload the results. I created an automatic hook from their git repo so that every time they commit we automatically start the scan. 

Are Right, A Lot
Leaders are right a lot. They have strong judgment and good instincts. They seek diverse perspectives and work to disconfirm their beliefs.

Describe a time when you disagreed with your boss? 
Scanning compiled code against boss's advice of scanning non-compiled code. 



Learn and Be Curious
Leaders are never done learning and always seek to improve themselves. They are curious about new possibilities and act to explore them.

Tell me something interesting you’ve learned recently?
A beginner in Kubernetes. 

Hire and Develop the Best
Leaders raise the performance bar with every hire and promotion. They recognize exceptional talent, and willingly move them throughout the organization. Leaders develop leaders and take seriously their role in coaching others. We work on behalf of our people to invent mechanisms for development like Career Choice.

How do you manage your top performers differently?
A poor performer to being a top performer. Then promoted him and added more responsibility. 

Insist on the Highest Standards
Leaders have relentlessly high standards — many people may think these standards are unreasonably high. Leaders are continually raising the bar and driving their teams to deliver high quality products, services and processes. Leaders ensure that defects do not get sent down the line and that problems are fixed so they stay fixed.

How did you know what you had delivered was what the customer wanted?

Went above and beyond for a project even when an engagement was over. As I knew in my instinct that a bug was present. 


Think Big
Thinking small is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Leaders create and communicate a bold direction that inspires results. They think differently and look around corners for ways to serve customers.

Maybe we can automate finding security issues, fixing issues without manual intervention for all our customers. 
Maybe we can automate security incident handling, find root cause by AI and  fix issues without manual intervention at all for our customers. 

Bias for Action
Speed matters in business. Many decisions and actions are reversible and do not need extensive study. We value calculated risk taking.

Tell me when you made a judgment call since you didn't have any data?
We had no Secure code review tool. We had to pick up one tool over another. The process of doing a thorough POC in the organization was quite a long process. We were looking at minimum of 3-6 months. Purchasing hardware, getting approval to install tools, selecting application to scan. Doing a POC scan and triage results. So I took a calculated risk by choosing a security SAST tool based on a paper based exercise and selected veracode and move on. 

Which security tool did you choose and how did you come to the conclusion? 

Frugality
Accomplish more with less. Constraints breed resourcefulness, self-sufficiency and invention. There are no extra points for growing headcount, budget size or fixed expense.

Customer doesn’t have more budget to buy another tool or add infrastructure. 
Not adding another tool to combine all security issues, just added in to existing tool (fortify). 

Earn Trust
Leaders listen attentively, speak candidly, and treat others respectfully. They are vocally self-critical, even when doing so is awkward or embarrassing. Leaders do not believe their or their team’s body odor smells of perfume. They benchmark themselves and their teams against the best.

Tell me about a time you made a serious mistake at work.

SOX testing 

Dive Deep
Leaders operate at all levels, stay connected to the details, audit frequently, and are skeptical when metrics and anecdote differ. No task is beneath them.

We ran code review across hundreds of applications in the organization. Day to day handling of code scanning was done by one of the team member in my team. He used to provide weekly metrics to me which I used to present to management. After the scan started for couple of weeks, I noticed an unusual pattern, certain applications were having hundreds of issues whereas certain applications were getting very few results. My instinct said something was wrong…
.NET code not getting scanned properly. 
Code review results for a particular type of showing off . Dig deep into issues.. 


Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit
Leaders are obligated to respectfully challenge decisions when they disagree, even when doing so is uncomfortable or exhausting. Leaders have conviction and are tenacious. They do not compromise for the sake of social cohesion. Once a decision is determined, they commit wholly.

Tell me about a time you disagreed with your manager ?

People giving negative comments, but held on my ground and defended my position. Boss trusted me so he also supported me. 


Deliver Results
Leaders focus on the key inputs for their business and deliver them with the right quality and in a timely fashion. Despite setbacks, they rise to the occasion and never settle.

What’d you do after you realized you couldn’t hit the date?
We are on pentest engagement which was due to be started on Monday and last 5 days. But after two days of waiting we still couldn’t get the testing enviornment working. But the client had a very tight deadline. 
